[MMB-85] Update README and add usage documentation (#67)
ably/spaces: README.md

![development-status](https://badgen.net/badge/development-status/alpha/yellow?icon=github)

# Ably

> _[Ably](https://ably.com) is the platform that powers synchronized digital experiences in realtime. Whether attending an event in a virtual venue, receiving realtime financial information, or monitoring live car performance data – consumers simply expect realtime digital experiences as standard. Ably provides a suite of APIs to build, extend, and deliver powerful digital experiences in realtime for more than 250 million devices across 80 countries each month. Organizations like Bloomberg, HubSpot, Verizon, and Hopin depend on Ably’s platform to offload the growing complexity of business-critical realtime data synchronization at global scale. For more information, see the [Ably documentation](https://ably.com/docs)._

Reviewer: @FayeMcC77 can you please review this and suggest any changes (we may need to incrementally apply it to all the repos, but let's start with this)

> _[Ably](https://ably.com) is the platform that powers synchronized digital experiences in realtime. Whether attending an event in a virtual venue, receiving realtime financial information, or monitoring live car performance data – consumers simply expect realtime digital experiences as standard. Ably provides a suite of APIs to build, extend, and deliver powerful digital experiences in realtime for more than 250 million devices across 80 countries each month. Organizations like Bloomberg, HubSpot, Verizon, and Hopin depend on Ably’s platform to offload the growing complexity of business-critical realtime data synchronization at global scale. For more information, see the [Ably documentation](https://ably.com/docs)._

Reviewer: FYI, I'm reverting this bit for now as I know we've moved away from that older copy. Let's discuss and update again when you and Faye are back from hols.

## Collaborative Spaces SDK

The Collaborative Spaces SDK enables you to implement realtime collaborative features in your applications. The requirement to have multiplayer collaboration in applications has only been increasing in recent years. Rather than having to coordinate resources on calls, or send documents and spreadsheets back and forth, features that make collaborating in realtime are becoming a necessity rather than a nice-to-have.

The main three features that you need to make your application collaborative are:

> * Who is in the application?

Author: I've rewritten them to have a conceptual paragraph and a more technical one in each section. Also added some images, so let me know what you think.

* Where is each user within the application?
* What is everyone doing in the application?

![Multiplayer Collaboration Demo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5900152/225328262-2b63bb49-57a0-4f40-b78e-b87565f4c98c.png)

> ### Who is in the application?

Reviewer: I think it would be confusing to mix the who, where, what with the technical concepts of the space. This is because space could mean an entire collaborative application or one part of an entire application. For example, think Miro dashboard vs one miro board. Let's chat about clarifying this. I do think that we need to separate the marketing concepts above clearly with the technical concepts being introduced from here on.

Author: Let me know if this one is covered by my rewrite above or happy to chat through still!

## Overview
### What is everyone doing in the application?

The Ably Spaces SDK provides purpose-built APIs to enable multiplayer collaboration in any web application. You can set up a collaborative "space" and subscribe to different kinds of updates to see who else is in the space with you, their live location within the app and any updates they are making.
The Collaborative Spaces SDK is built as an extension to the existing [Ably JavaScript SDK](https://github.com/ably/ably-js). This means that it is possible to utilize the existing pub/sub functionality available with Ably in a collaborative application to track what users are doing. For example, when a user is updating the contents of a cell or field you can use a [channel](https://ably.com/docs/realtime/channels) to show the new contents to other users as it's being typed.

It is built as an extension to our [existing JS SDK](https://github.com/ably/ably-js), so you'll need an Ably JS client to be able to use this library. The usage instructions will help you set that up.
## Development status

### Glossary
The Collaborative Spaces SDK is currently under development. 

> 1. Space: A virtual collaborative space where members can collaborate in realtime with each other.

Reviewer: What's the reason behind removing this glossary?

Author: 'Space' seemed the only brand new term, or one that wasn't a term that was implementation heavy. I decided to just explain what it was upfront instead. 'Member' seems self-explanatory and 'avatar stack' is very common. I can add it back in if you think it helps, but that was my thought process.

> You can also view a [live demo](https://spaces-demo.netlify.app/?space=nearby-lips-familiar). This uses an example slideshow to demonstrate updating an avatar stack and displaying user locations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also view a [live demo](https://space.ably.dev). This uses an example slideshow to demonstrate updating an avatar stack and displaying user locations.
```

* An Ably account. You can [sign up](https://ably.com/signup) for free.
* An Ably API key. You can create API keys in an app within your [Ably account](https://ably.com/dashboard).

>   * The API key needs the following [capabilities](https://ably.com/docs/realtime/authentication#capabilities-explained): `publish`, `subscribe`, `presence` and `history`.

Reviewer: A cropped screenshot of the dashboard will be useful here for new users.

Author: I added one in and then removed it as it doesn't add an awful lot of context, depending on what screen you use.

Reviewer: Fair enough

You can use [basic authentication](https://ably.com/docs/realtime/authentication#basic-authentication) for testing purposes, however it is strongly recommended that you use [token authentication](https://ably.com/docs/realtime/authentication#token-authentication) in any production environments.

> ### Authenticate and instantiate

Reviewer: Can we also do an `npm install` step for both ably-js and spaces please?

![development-status](https://badgen.net/badge/development-status/alpha/yellow?icon=github)

# Ably

_[Ably](https://ably.com) is the platform that powers synchronized digital experiences in realtime. Whether attending an event in a virtual venue, receiving realtime financial information, or monitoring live car performance data – consumers simply expect realtime digital experiences as standard. Ably provides a suite of APIs to build, extend, and deliver powerful digital experiences in realtime for more than 250 million devices across 80 countries each month. Organizations like Bloomberg, HubSpot, Verizon, and Hopin depend on Ably’s platform to offload the growing complexity of business-critical realtime data synchronization at global scale. For more information, see the [Ably documentation](https://ably.com/docs)._

## Collaborative Spaces SDK

> The Collaborative Spaces SDK enables you to implement realtime collaborative features in your applications. Rather than having to coordinate resources on calls, or send documents and spreadsheets back and forth using a combination of tools, having in-app realtime collaboration features has proven to boost productivity in remote workplaces.

Author: I'm happy to keep or remove this one - I think I added the additional context based on a request from @Srushtika

![Avatar stack image](/docs/images/avatar-stack.png)

To make an application collaborative using the Collaborative Spaces SDK, you first create a `space`. A space is the virtual collaborative area of an application you want to monitor. A space can be anything from a web page, a sheet within a spreadsheet, an individual slide in a slideshow, or the slideshow itself. Once a space has been defined, users can enter that space and register their details. Subscribing to updates from a space will notify you of when anyone joins or leaves the space.

### Where is each user within the application?

Knowing where each user is within an application helps you understand their attentions without always needing to explicitly ask them. For example, seeing that a colleague is currently viewing slide 2 of a slideshow means that you can carry out your own edits to slide 3 without interfering with their work. Displaying the locations of your users can be achieved by highlighting the UI element they have selected, displaying a miniature avatar stack on the slide they are viewing, or showing the live location of their cursors.

![UI selection highlighted](/docs/images/ui-highlight.png)

> To display the live location of users within an application using the Collaborative Spaces SDK, you utilize a `space`. You can set and track locations of users using the locations API and subscribe to events for when they move. You can track cursors within a space using the cursors API, and similarly subscribe to events for when they move.

Author: I think I added this context based on https://github.com/ably-labs/spaces/pull/67#discussion_r1197862405

const spaces = new Spaces(client);
```

### Space membership

> A space is the virtual area of an application you want to monitor, such as a web page, or slideshow. Create a space and subscribe to events for when clients enter and leave it. Space membership is used to build avatar stacks and display which members are online within a space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A space is the virtual collaborative area of an application you want to monitor. You can decide what constitutes a space in your app, it could be the entire app or just a specific artefact such as a web page, or slidedeck. Create a space and subscribe to events for when clients enter and leave it. Space membership is used to build avatar stacks and display which members are online within a space.
```

```ts
// Create a new space
const space = spaces.get('demoSlideshow');

// Register a listener to subscribe to events of when users enter or leave the space
space.on('membersUpdate', (members) => {
  console.log(members);
});

// Enter a space, publishing a memberUpdate event, including optional user data
space.enter({
  username: "Claire Lemons",
  avatar: "https://slides-internal.com/users/clemons.png",
});
```

The following is an example `membersUpdate` event received by subscribers when a user enters a space:

```json
[
  {
    "clientId": "clemons@slides.com",
    "isConnected": true,
    "lastEvent": {
      "name": "enter",
      "timestamp": 1677595689759
    },
    "location": null,
    "profileData": {
      "username": "Claire Lemons",
      "avatar": "https://slides-internal.com/users/clemons.png"
    }
  }
]
```

### Location updates

> Locations enable you to track where clients are within an application. Subscribe to all location updates, those for a specific location, such as a single UI element, or a specific client.

Reviewer: Can we say 'User location enables you' just to be clear? Or are you referring to the class here?

```ts
// Register a listener to subscribe to events of when users change location
space.locations.on('locationUpdate', (update) => {
  console.log(update);
});

// Publish locationUpdate event with a client's location when they select a UI element or change web pages
space.locations.set({slide: '3', component: 'slide-title'});

> // Create a tracker to only publish locationUpdate events for a specific user using their clientId

Reviewer: More of a suggestion: it may be worth explicitly adding 'option 1: ...', 'option 2:..' etc to each way of subscribing to locations so readers don't mistake the snippet as the thing they'd paste directly to work with.

Author: Hmm... I get your point, but people may want to use a combination of them all?

Reviewer: True, but that's still accomplished with options, no?

> const spaces = new Spaces(client);

Reviewer 2: Should we update this with the alternative instantiation, with no client?:

Using just the key:
```js
const spaces = new Spaces(ABLY_API_KEY);
```

Using client options:
```js
const spaces = new Spaces({ key: ABLY_API_KEY });
```

These are nice for just hacking away. The client instance, if needed for pub/sub or anything else, can then be accessed via `spaces.ably`.

Author: I didn't realise you could instantiate like this(!) That's much cleaner so have updated the examples.

```ts
// Register a listener to subscribe to events of when users change location
space.locations.on('locationUpdate', (update) => {
  console.log(update);
});

// Publish locationUpdate event with a client's location when they select a UI element or change web pages
space.locations.set({slide: '3', component: 'slide-title'});

// Create a tracker to only publish locationUpdate events for a specific user using their clientId
const memberTracker = space.locations.createTracker(
  (change) => change.member.clientId === 'clemons@slides.com'
);

// Register a listener to subscribe to events for a tracker
memberTracker.on((change) => {
  console.log(change);
});

// Create a tracker to only publish locationUpdate events for a specific location, such as a UI element or spreadsheet cell
const locationTracker = space.locations.createTracker(
  (change) => change.previousLocation === 'slide-title'
);

// Register a listener to subscribe to events for a tracker
locationTracker.on((change) => {
  console.log(change);
});
```

The following is an example `locationUpdate` event received by subscribers when a user changes location:

```json
{
    "member": {

>     "clientId": "clemons@slides.com",

Reviewer 2: I think this more then likely should be the unique id of user of the application, emails can be non unique (multiple accounts and such)

Reviewer 2: (also some of the indentation in this code sample has gone wrong!)

Author: Fair point - I've updated to a random user string instead. Also fixed indentation.
